<pre>
  BIP: 45
  Title: Selector Script
  Author: Noel Tiernan <tier.nolan@gmail.com>
  Status: Draft
  Type: Standards Track
  Created: 2014-04-25
</pre>

==Abstract==

This BIP describes a new "standard" transaction type for the Bitcoin scripting system

==Motivation==

The purpose of the selector scipt is to allow a coin to be spent using more than 1 script.

This is a feature that is necessary for atomic cross chain transfers [1].

==Specification==

A new standard transaction type that is relayed and included in mined blocks is defined:

    OPTION-1 OPTION-2 .... OPTION-N OPTION-CLOSE

Transaction with more than 5 options are considered non-standard.

OPTION-N is defined:

    OP_DUP OP_N OP_EQUAL OP_IF OP_DROP {Standard Script} OP_ELSE

{Standard Script} is one of the standard scripts, except this type or P2SH.

OP_N is the single byte push opcode.

OPTION-CLOSE is defined:

    OP_RETURN OP_ENDIF OP_ENDIF .... OP_ENDIF

The number of OP_ENDIFs is equal to the number of options.

A script with two options would be of the form:

    OP_DUP 
    OP_1 
    OP_EQUAL 
    OP_IF 
        OP_DROP 
        {Standard Script} 
    OP_ELSE 
        OP_DUP 
        OP_2 
        OP_EQUAL 
        OP_IF 
            OP_DROP 
            {Standard Script} 
        OP_ELSE
            OP_RETURN
        OP_ENDIF
    OP_ENDIF

The script compares compares the first item on the stack with each option in turn.  Once a match is found, the index
is dropped from the stack and the selected script is executed.  If no matching option is found, the final else branch
executes.  This causes OP_RETURN to be executed.

The script is redeemed by selecting one of the options.

    ...signatures... OP_N

==Rationale==

This transaction type (in conjunction with bip-0045) is required in order to support atomic cross chain transfers.  

Multiple methods for spending the transaction output is required for the protocol.

==Backwards Compatibility==

This BIP does not change the validation rules for the network, so there is no risk of network split.

Once a sufficient number of network nodes have updated, the new transactions should propagate to miners.

Only one script is executed, so the verification load is the same as a transaction which uses that script directly.
Since that script must be a standard transaction, there is no additional CPU load.

Since all script options must be provided, these transactions are larger than standard transactions.  
Users of this transaction type would have to pay fees to cover the extra size.

==Reference Implementation==

TBD

== References ==

[1] https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=193281.0

==Copyright==

This document is placed in the public domain.
